the only way to deal with an unfree
world is to become so absolutely free
that your very existence is an act of
rebellion Albert Camus when our movement
is restricted chances are high that we
feel trapped no matter if we are in
prison in a mental hospital or
quarantined between the four walls of
our home the very idea that we cannot
leave can drive us nuts and nostalgia
may arise for the times that we were
able to go places but there's more to
freedom than a mere restriction of
physical movement moreover how free are
we in the first place and how can we
experience freedom when we are
physically trapped
[Music]
we could say that the human experience
takes place in two separate realms the
outside world and the inside world
regardless of what's happening outside
it's the mind that processes the
information that the senses perceive and
makes judgments about it based on ideals
convictions frames of reference etc this
means that different minds can judge the
exact same situation in a completely
different way what one person thinks is
acceptable
another thinks is intolerable the same
goes for ugliness and beauty and also
for freedom and imprisonment throughout
the ages the concept of freedom or more
specifically freedom within the outside
world has always been transforming the
hunters and gatherers of old age for
example we could see as absolutely free
they were not subjugated to a government
didn't know national borders and
wouldn't be arrested when they slept in
the wild however in a sense they were
also very much unfree because they were
always in survival mode and lived with
uncertainty in regards to meeting their
basic needs
they probably hardly had room for things
like self-realization and as opposed to
us modern humans their lives were
restricted to one area not only because
there wasn't any fast transportation
also because exploring uncharted areas
was very dangerous because of wild
animals and other tribes that could be
hostile compared to us their world was
very small also their life expectancy
was much shorter so not only were they
restricted by their mobility they were
also prisoners of time and we still are
even though modern civilization is much
more advanced which leads to a longer
life expectancy and through technology
we created the possibility to travel the
world and even shoot ourselves into
space and visit other planets in a
physical sense we are way more free than
our ancestors
however our existence is still chained
to the things we do not control
according to absurdist philosopher
Albert Camus humanity is simply a random
occurrence in an indifferent universe
that imposes all kinds of situations
upon us that we have no power over
things like life and death health and
illness and if we are born in poverty or
in a wealthy family as jean-paul sartre
put it we are thrown into this world
thus it has never been our choice to be
here and even worse we are bound to our
condition the only way to escape this is
suicide which according to cim yux is
the only truly important philosophical
problem long story short we are quite
and free can we compare the human
condition to that of a mythological
character named Sisyphus who was a king
that challenged the gods as a punishment
he was condemned to push a rock uphill
that rolled down again when it reached
the top and to repeat this process for
eternity in a way Sisyphus is
quarantined within the limits of as a
repetitive task if that's us how could
we possibly be free if we look at some
religious explanations of the human
condition
we discover the claim of determinism
determinism means that we are all part
of a divine plan and our lives and
actions have already been written in the
stars this means that there is no free
will and that everything happens
according to the will of God but
paradoxically the acceptance of this
idea actually gives us a sense of
freedom under any circumstances it's not
that we become physically more free but
the freedom lies in the seizing of
resistance to what is of course for
die-hard determinists even the position
we take towards determinism is
determined so there's no freedom at all
yet just looking at the human experience
we can at least experience freedom of
choice thus the freedom over our own
faculties that Epictetus spoke about
this means that we can still control
desire and aversion we can desire to be
somewhere else and hope for better times
but by doing so we grasp for the future
with a contempt for the present moment
can't we just enjoy the now
let's take a look at Buddhist monks they
have a different outlook on solitude as
well as on being locked up
moreover they voluntarily choose to
spend time in solitude and literally
lock themselves away from the outside
world in order to meditate instead of
finding freedom depending on external
circumstances they find an expansive
kind of freedom within and this freedom
is tied to the cessation of suffering
part of this is the cessation of
cravings that's the strong desire for
anything else then what is now let's go
back to our absurdist philosopher Albert
Camus in his work the myth of Sisyphus
he argues that freedom lies not in our
external circumstances but in how we
behave towards them in his view we
should not only accept that life is
absurd we ought to revolt against it and
how he puts it to become so absolutely
free that our very existence is an act
of rebellion as modern-day Sisyphus we
should find enjoyment in despair reject
hope be indifferent to the future and
live intensely in the present moment if
we can imagine Sisyphus happy we surely
can imagine ourselves being happy in
quarantine at the end of the day freedom
is a matter of perspective
this doesn't mean that we shouldn't
fight for freedom and autonomy and that
we let ourselves be captured and
basically let injustice befall us
without resistance that's a completely
different story
it means that we at least have a choice
in how we experience freedom in a
certain situation and that we don't
necessarily have to feel trapped even if
we are physically restricted there's
great psychological freedom in finding
joy in what's supposed to be dreadful
when we are locked up in prison we are
supposed to hate it and as members of a
society with a high degree of mobility
and in which we constantly look for
pleasure outside being locked up in our
homes is supposed to be horrible in
order to be free in quarantine
we must wreck the system if we manage to
curb our desires for what's out there
and to actually enjoy the unenjoyable
external forces
used to have power over us I mean let's
face it isn't the enjoyment of what's
supposed to be a punishment the ultimate
act of rebellion thank you for watching
[Music]